>> Kadi Kraman: So far we've been
using the default system font, or
whatever the user has configured.
So that is San Francisco for
iOS and Roboto for Android, so
all of our text is using that.
In order to use a custom font,
we need to bundle the font
files with our application.
There are two ways to do this,
to do custom fonts using Expo,
you could load the font at
runtime using the usefont hooks.
So this mostly exists to make
custom fonts available to Expo Go,
and the font loads
asynchronously at runtime.
So actually the way we do it is using
this splash screen hack or workaround or
basically, but
using the splash screen to do it.
So usually what you would do to prevent
the font from like flickering from one to
the other or like not working.
Is that you would prevent
the splash screen from hiding,
you fetch the font, you load the font and
then you show the splash screen.
Or you can use the expo-fontconfig plugin,
and
this is only available with
development builds, and
this bundles the font files in the native
bundle so they're always available.
As we are on team development build now,
we will go with this option number two.
Otherwise if you are using fonts and
you have both OTF and TTF options,
choose OTF because they tend to be
smaller, but both of them pull back.
So I mentioned a conflict plugin,
so plugins and
mods are the key to making changes in
your native projects during pre-build.
So right now our iOS and Android projects
are ephemeral, so they are throwaway,
we are generating them only so
we could build our native project.
And if I make any changes here manually,
they will be wiped with the next prebuilt.
So what if I want to install a library or
I want to make some change that requires
like changing this safe directory,
but I don't want to opt out of this
preamble photo because it's handy.
And the key to that are plugins and
mods, so
they are little JavaScript functions
that get a run during pre-built.
And then you can change the files
you need to a directory or
you can change context, so
there's little example here.
And most complicated libraries
that require additional
native configuration will use
a config plugin to achieve that,
so the config plugin will be
shipped with the library.
So config plugins aren't available
with expo go because they're changing
the native direct.
So if you need to use a config plugin,
you have to use a development build.
So Google Fonts has a huge amount of
fonts available, it's pretty handy and
they are all free to use,
which is also pretty handy.
So if you're building client projects,
then a lot of times they will provide you
with font files, so you can use those.
But if you're building for
smaller projects or for
yourself, then Google Fonts
is often a good option.
Let's for example, take this font Caveat,
I know handwriting fonts,
doing your whole app in handwriting in
fonts would probably be a bit intense.
But I think it's pretty nice to use this,
for example for
our little tagline on
the on boarding screen.
So we also have these
convenient libraries, so
you could download this font.
So you could go to get font and
then download it and include it manually.
If you're using a Google font,
we also have libraries for
all the Google fonts that you could,
npx expo install them instead of
having to manually download them.
So, that's npx expo install expo-font and
this Google font for
Caveat, gonna do this here.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now, we need to add
the config plug-in to include this font
file in our native projects.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so this will
be in our app.json and there we go, so
our plugins are here, so we already
had a little plugin for Expo Router.
So to pass in additional
options to our plugin,
I'm going to convert this into an array.
Yes, so I'm going to convert
this into an array and
the first element of the array is It's
going to be the name of the plugin,
and the second one is
an object with fonts.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this will be an array
of fonts, so the font that we chos,
we installed a library for it.
So it's actually look so
it'll be expo-google-fonts/caveats,
so if we go to our node modules,
expo-google-fonts, there you go.
So these are all of our
font files [COUGH] and
I think I chose the 400 one.
So, if you had your own OTF or TTF file,
you could put it in your assets directory
and then link from it from here.
Because this is in my node modules,
I'll just copy the path and add it here.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay and now all
that's left to do is to rebuild, so
I'm gonna do my same trick again just
to remove this from gitignore so
we could just see all the things
that prebuild is adding.
And let me npx here expo prebuilt, and
I'm gonna just do -- clean to do
both projects at the same time.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, and now if you
look at what's changed in the Android
directory, the Caveat font has
been added to the fonts directory.
And on iOS,
it's listed in our info P list,
and I think there's gonna be a link
to it in the in the x code project,
so these are the things that changed.
And finally,
let me just add these back into gitignore,
do wanna accidentally commit that
because that would be a nightmare,
and let's rebuild for
an Android and run iOS.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now we wait,
it shouldn't be too long.
>> Kadi Kraman: While I wait
I'm going to add some plants.
>> Speaker 2: Do you ever
add a seeding script, so
you don't have to do this every time
you do a pre-build to add data?
>> Kadi Kraman: A seeding script like for
the data?
>> Speaker 2: Like a seeding script yeah,
you wouldn't have to go in and
add Sophie the spider plant.
>> Kadi Kraman: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Is that a thing with mold
development?
With Prisma Database, there's
a seeding ability where you can say,
hey, this is some mock data for
maybe an environment or something.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, I see what you mean,
so I haven't built a lot of apps where all
the data is stored locally,
tends to be stored remotely.
So you would have a mock API
where you would load it from,
that would be very common.
>> Speaker 2: We use markdown, you just
build a markdown and you just say when you
get a 200, respond with this and
then you point to a local dev URL.
Okay, so
it's dependent on the app kind of mock.
Yeah, you just you change your
local environment to say when you
want to call mock data.
You started with mock server, koon server.
Interesting, I gotcha.
That's how we do it.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, so
thankfully you don't have to rebuild
very often in day-to-day life,
so you would rebuild, go and
have a cup of coffee, it's a nice break.
It's a little bit more tedious
in a workshop setting.
Okay, our field is done, so
this should now include,
let me just add the same,
my two favorite plans.
Okay and then let's go to onboarding,
cuz what we wanted to do is change
this onboarding the sub the call out,
keep your plants healthy and hydrated.
Let's change this to a handwriting font,
I think that would look quite nice.
So the font that we added,
the file name was,
it was Caveat regular, so
let's copy this and go to our
onboarding file, tagline,
fontFamily, Caveat Regular.
Okay, and let's make this slightly
bigger as well, I think 34 will do it.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so you've noticed
that it's updated immediately on Android,
but it's not updated on IOS, why is that?
The reason is on Android,
the file name of the font file is used as
the font family and this makes sense,
it's really easy to see.
We passed in the Caveat
400 regular into here and
then that's why we're doing
font family Caveat 400 regular.
On ios, it's actually using
a postscript name of the font,
which is not necessarily
the same as the filename.
So the way that you find out
the postscript name is you
have to load the font into
your font book on Mac.
So if you go to your node module,
extra legal font, Caveat_400Regular.
And if you basically
navigate to this folder and
double click on it, it will open it
you can open it in your font book.
So it will be font book, so
open it on here and actually,
I've already loaded this one,
but you could search for it.
So this is all the fonts that
are installed on my Mac are here,
thats Caveat.
And here you can see the postscript
name of the font, so
you'll see that even though my
file name was Caveat400Regular,
the postscript name is
actually Caveat Regular.
So if I go to onboarding and
change this to Caveat Regular,
then Android stops working and
iOS starts working,
it's like whack a mole.
Well, thankfully we have utility
functions to handle this, so
we have platform, which is from React
Native, so we use platform ios before.
But there's actually another
handy utility function,
where you can do platform select,
and here you can pass in an object.
So on ios, we will choose Caveat Regular,
and on Android, we will do it
was Caveat_400Regular,
which was the file name.
Now it works on both.